Hello everybody and welcome to this quick reminder video about applying your transforms.
Now you've already seen at least one of these videos in this course already.
Unfortunately it is a reminder video because I've seen so many people forget to apply their transformers
and obviously getting confused when they're applying a particle system across their bunny for the hairs.
And I've seen people go from having not very many hairs on their body wondering what's going on.
I say have you applied or transformed and all of a sudden the thing becomes incredibly hairy.
Now of course you can get around that simply by applying your transforms.
So now just a quick reminder by hopping over into a blender and finding out more.
Hello everybody and welcome back in front of us here we have three spheres that all look the same They've
all got the same particle system on them as well that there is a difference between them.
And that is their scale.
So the one on the left as the view is at the moment we have a look has a scale factor of point one.
So actually this ball in reality is 10 times larger and it's been shrunk down.
Now the middle one has a scale factor of one.
And if we go to one on the very end you can see it's got a scale factor of ten but they're essentially
all identical.
We go into edit mode we can see we've got a ball here.
We've got another uni sphere here and another Yuri sphere here.
So they are all identical.
And when you go ahead and put a particle system as you can see here they all look pretty much identical
as well.
So what's the problem I hear you say well when it comes to the scale and particle systems it's all to
do with about the number of them and the distribution of them.
And what you will see in the viewport Unless are in rendered mode it will be completely different so
we hop into rended note mode.
Now my computer will slow down lots because there's lots of hairs on there but you can see there's a
dramatic difference between these three even though they looked the same.
So if you have a ball that looked like this all sparse and you then applied the scale it would change.
In fact we can do that live.
It's got this ball selected this last square on the left and if I go control a and apply the scale it
will look.
So here's something that goes all crazy and you can see that's exactly what you need to be careful of.
Now this is quite funny when you're creating the fluffy bunny in a bit.
And we'll go through all these settings and how to control them later on.
But you can see how that would be rather annoying if you spent time combing brushing cutting and neatening
up your Bunny's hair only to find it just goes off and turns into a big fluff ball and then undo that
for the moment and go back to where we were before.
So you can see here is very important that we do make sure we apply our transforms specifically in this
case we're talking about the scale of the object itself.
That's the main thing that's going to affect the particle distribution.
And that goes with any sort of particle systems whatsoever.
And of course this will be the first time we touch upon it in this course.
So there we go.
That's a quick summary of why you should be applying your transforms and just make sure you do as you're
going through things.
And a reminder that if you're editing something be in edit mode thing you don't really need to worry
about this.
And if you do adjust the scale of something that's so we grab this middle one here and scale it up ever
so slightly.
Once you've done that REMEMBER TO GO control an A or go down to the object menu and apply that scale
do it straightaway.
Dont try and remember later on we can see each change we've made it bigger.
So the distribution of hairs is much thinner now and that's what you need to watch out for.
If we go ahead and this one on the left it got really puffy.
Let's see what happens.
It's the other way.
It's a really small object and then you go and apply a scale.
So let's go and apply a scale to that.
You can see some it thins out lots.
So you do need to be careful because that's a tiny object.
And of course it's meant that the hairs proportionately smaller as well.
So there we go a brief overview of why you should be applying your transforms in this section.
Do remember to do it otherwise you could end up with some crazy hair on your bunnies.
Catch you in the next lecture.